In recent days, Mark Carney has made it
very clear that he is moving the Liberal
Party to the right, rolling out tax cuts
that are primarily going to affect the
middle class and wealthy, cutting the
consumer carbon tax, focusing on
economic development, inviting Narendra
Modi to the G7, and a bunch of other
stuff. We talked about it a bunch in the
past, but Mark Carney is very much
living up to the principle that liberals
campaign from the left and govern from
the right. But today, what I want to
talk about is who that is squeezing out.
Because the answer is Pierre Paulv. He
does not seem to have a place in this
new political landscape. The Liberals
are doing basically everything the
Conservatives wanted. And so the
Conservatives are stuck on the right
saying, "Well, they should be doing a
little more, even though we agree with
them." And on the left, you've got the
NDP rolling out their new branding,
Memories of Socialism. And now the cat's
here, and he's a socialist, too. And
look, I know the NDP are limited by the
fact that they've lost official party
status, but they should be one of the
most vocal critics of the Liberals right
now because there's ample opportunity,
and they haven't really seized it. A big
part of that is that they've got to get
their rears in gear when it comes to the
leadership race. But that's a
conversation for another day because
today I want to talk about the downfall
of Pierre Polyv because it is happening
folks and you love to see it. So first
up, how do we know that the downfall of
Pierre Polyv is happening? Well, there's
a number of reasons. For starters, he
has had nowhere near as much luck
capturing media attention lately. He's
holding press conferences whenever he
can, including this one to complain
about the interprovincial trade deals
that Mark Carney is bringing forward.
Although worth noting, Palev is not
wearing his visitor pass, and people who
aren't elected MPs need to be wearing
their visitor pass in parliament. Just
saying. And it is severely hurting
Paulv's credibility and ability to
communicate with the public that he
isn't an elected MP. And I'm not going
to get into the whole unelected leader
thing. It doesn't really work like that.
If you're going to make that complaint,
then you should probably make the same
about Nad Neni in Alberta, right? Cuz
he's been a leader without a seat for
over a year. Is he an invalid leader?
That's not the issue. The issue is Polyv
failing to lead and failing to really
get anything done. The whole
conversation around him has been largely
focused on whether or not he can stay on
as leader and that's appearing to get
more and more questionable. Although I
want to be clear here, he is by no means
done and I think that underestimating
him would be a mistake. But he is at
least in the weakest political position
that he's been in since becoming leader
and probably since before that. We're
getting back to the times where he was
holding up random pieces of lumber in a
park just writing inflation on them. Ah,
the days before media training house
times. And if you ask Pierre Palev, even
though he lost, he won. Every time that
he's asked about the election result, he
talks about how the Conservatives got
more votes than ever and drew more
Canadians into their big tent than ever
came out or whatever. He talks about the
election as though it was a grand
success, even though he's saying it
without a seat and without being prime
minister. Great success, clearly. And
the polls reflect just how badly things
are going. The latest Nanos poll shows a
five-point lead for the Liberals and the
latest Abacus poll shows a three-point
lead, but I don't think that tells the
whole story because when you start
looking at leaders, it becomes very
clear where the conservative problem
lies. When it comes to preferred leader,
Mark Carney now leads by the widest
margin he has ever held. Nearly 20
points difference between Mark Carney
and Pierre Palev. Negative perceptions
about Palev are some of the highest
they've ever been. and positive
perceptions are some of the lowest. And
I think this chart from Abacus lays it
out very clearly. The dark green line is
people who believe that it's time for a
change and that there's a good
alternative. The light green line is
people who believe that it's time for a
change and there is no good alternative.
And the red line are people who want to
reelect the liberals. And the trend is
incredibly clear and the conservatives
are doing nothing to stop it. And
basically every conversation about
Pierre Palev at this point is who should
he fire? Should he be fired? What is the
path forward for the party? He's
planning to go run in Battle River
Crowoot, and he's very likely going to
win that bi-election. But he has a more
difficult road than it originally
seemed. For starters, the longest ballot
initiative is coming after this
bi-election, which means that he's going
to be running against up to 200
candidates, and a lot of those
candidates have potential to peel away a
few votes, although it remains an
incredibly safe riding, and he is still
very, very likely to win. But he may
have to actually put in some work. And
that's going to be a problem because
that's going to pull his attention away
from the national scene. It's going to
force him to do some campaigning in
Battle River Crowoot. And I think that
starts to highlight some of the real
issues that Pierre Palev is going to
have to deal with here because
everything that he says seems to be kind
of contradictory. He says that he
doesn't support Alberta separatism, but
he's running in a riding with some of
the strongest Alberta separatist
sentiment in the province and he's going
to have to talk out of both sides of his
mouth and address their concerns while
not endorsing Alberta separatism. When
it comes to the economy, Mark Carney is
running in circles around them, at least
in the perceptions of Canadians. It's
really interesting when you have a look
at Nano's research. The Trump moment
seems to be passing in the minds of a
lot of Canadians, and there are still
obviously massive concerns. Donald Trump
in the United States is currently
turning the military against his own
people and in likely setting up
precursors to martial law. Although
that's not what we're going to focus on
here today, but it is incredibly
concerning. But this chart from Nanos
research shows very clearly that the
moment of greatest concern for most
Canadians around Donald Trump seems to
have come and gone. People's focus is
moving much more inward, much more
domestic and focusing on the Canadian
economy. And so when they see Mark
Carney bringing out significant measures
to break down internal trade barriers,
seems like that's satisfying most
Canadians. And so Pierre Paul's
grievance politics become much more
difficult. He's stuck saying things
like, "It's baby steps when we needed a
giant leap." Saying essentially, "The
ideas are good. Just give us more." And
frankly, that's not much of a political
platform to stand on. Our opponent is
excellent. We just want to be slightly
more excellent. Doesn't really hold up.
Same with Carney inviting Nurendra Modi
to G7. Pier has been supportive. He's
endorsed that decision. Seems like
they're spending a lot of time agreeing
with one another, doesn't it? But I
think one of the biggest things that
stands out to me is that Pierre Polyv
hasn't changed anything. He has kept on
basically all of the people from his
previous campaign, including his
campaign manager, Jenny Burn, because
everybody knows when your campaign is a
disaster, step one, keep everything
exactly as it was. Change nothing, learn
nothing. It's a conservative way. Like,
he claims that he's softening his image.
But how has he done that? He's claimed
that he's heard the public, but what has
he done to show that? Nothing's really
changed. He's still posting super weird
videos where everything's slowly zooming
in on him to Twitter. you know, where
he's waving his hands around and saying
a bunch of big numbers in front of a
brick wall or waving around an
incredibly obviously empty coffee cup
again and again and again. Honestly,
that video is just the weirdest. Why
have an empty coffee cup? I just don't
get it. Does he think that the most
relatable thing that he can do is just
waving around coffee? Because here's the
thing. Canadians are largely satisfied
with what's going on, at least at
present based on polling numbers. So,
how do you continue to farm grievance?
How do you continue to push your
constant complaints about literally
everything that's going on? Like Pierre
Polio put out a 10-minute video
demanding increased resource development
as Mark Carney is bringing out a bill
that's going to support significantly
increased resource development. Like
Mark Carney keeps talking about turning
Canada into an energy superpower and
said that he supports a new pipeline if
there's consensus among the provinces.
That's not enough for Polyf. So he's
going to keep complaining and expect
Mark Carney to somehow step on
provincial jurisdiction. He's going to
complain about crime. And this example
blows me away. Pierre Paul posted about
this. 700,000 doses of fentanyl were
seized. 23 people arrested and a whole
drug ring was broken up. And you know
what Pierre Palev did? Complained about
it. Like he's turning positives into
negatives. He's kind of unable to
recognize a win. Although in his
defense, he doesn't win much. So that
would make sense. But the point is he's
got nothing. He has no real pivot, no
real plan, and no real voice anymore.
The conservatives are just asking the
same three or four questions again and
again in the House and going in circles.
Andrew Shear is patting himself on the
back for what a great job the party's
doing. Well, you've got conservative MPs
getting in Twitter fights all the time
and a party that seems to lack direction
and lack vision. Mark Carney has moved
the Liberal Party into that progressive
conservative ideological space, which
means that Palev needs to adapt and his
only options are just to agree with them
or push the party further to the right.
But pushing the party further to the
right scared the crap out of the public
and made them turn away. Polyv has
really painted himself into a corner
here and it's only going to get worse
because the things that you need to say
to get elected in Battle River Crowoot
and the things that you're going to need
to say to endear yourself to the greater
Canadian public are two very different
things. And it's become very clear very
quickly that this government is not a
tremendously secure one. There could be
an election at any time. So Palev is
going to need a plan. A lot of his
positions have a lot of contradictions
and he doesn't really seem to have a
plan to address that. He doesn't really
seem to have any sort of path forward.
So will he stay on his leader? Probably.
Almost entirely because the party
doesn't have any other viable options.
Like who's out there circling as a
potential leadership candidate. Who's an
actual threat to Pia right now? Doug
Ford. Keeps acting like it, but the fact
that you haven't heard him speak French
in public tells you pretty much
everything you need to know. Doug Ford
just not ready. Same with Danielle
Smith. She's not really a threat on
national scale, so she's just going to
stay over in Alberta and say a whole
bunch of nonsense and claim that they
have the lowest living standards in the
world. Seriously, she actually said that
on the weekend when she was asked about
Alberta's oil production and how it's
been on the rise, no matter how much she
complains, she said this, "Bashy, we've
got the lowest living standards in the
world." And who within the party has
presented a credible alternative?
There's really nobody. And so Pierre
PV's position as leader is likely
secure, in particular, his position as
leader of the opposition because the
odds of him becoming prime minister seem
to be getting lower by the day. It's
become pretty clear that Pierre Paleo
was able to capture a moment of
grievance against Justin Trudeau, but
now that moment seems to have passed,
and he seems to be unable to adapt. He
should probably just go back to posting
photos of him with lumber. That was
really his wheelhouse. But in the
meantime, the rest of us are just going
to watch him and the conservatives
circle the drain. You love to see it.
Take care of yourselves, folks.
